What’s special about Australian Education?
Wide-ranging study options are available in Australia with more than 1,200 institutions and over 22,000 courses to pick from apart from the numerous scholarships offered by several Australian Universities to international students.
Which courses can we apply for in Australian Institutions?
You can opt for a course of your choice, be it from science, management, tourism, hospitality, commerce, humanities, engineering, law or health sciences. Whatever you choose you will get the best as Australian institutions rank among the world’s best particularly in the fields of engineering and technology, medicine, nursing, environmental science, accounting and finance.
What are the different study levels that we can apply for to pursue higher education in Australia?
You can apply for undergraduate, postgraduate & research courses. You can also apply for the package courses which include certificate+ diploma leading to an undergraduate degree and graduate diplomas leading to post graduate degrees.
How should we apply to study in Australia?
You have to apply for admission to an institution through one of the authorised representatives appointed and trained by the university (as they will provide free expert advice) and apply for a student visa from the Australian Government in order to study in Australia.
What are the entry requirements for Australia?
You will need to meet a range of entry requirements both for your institution application and your visa application for Australia.Academic requirements,English language requirements,Evidence of funds to support your study,Overseas student health cover
What is CRICOS?
CRICOS is Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students. As an international student on a student visa, you have to study with an institution and in a course that is registered on CRICOS as this registration assures that the course and the institution at which you want to study meets the high standards expected by international students to study in Australia.
What can be the cost of studying in Australia?
The cost of studying in Australia would mostly depend on the ranking of the institution and the level of study you choose. The total cost includes the tuition fees and the living and accommodation expenses. Occasionally there may be an added cost involved for the course materials and access to institution facilities.
Are any scholarships available for international students in Australia?
There are many scholarships, grants, and bursaries offered by the Australian Government, education institutions, and a number of other public and private organisations to support international students with their studies in Australia.
Are there any internship opportunities in Australia? Are the internships paid or unpaid?
Yes, there are internships in Australia but for selective courses. Internships for international students in Australia can be paid or unpaid depending on the industry and the length of placement. Internships provide a great opportunity to gain hands-on experience in the area of your study.
What are Education Pathways in Australia?
The Education Pathways can help you reach your goal just in case you don’t meet the entry requirements to get into the course you want to pursue in Australia.The pathways might include studying in an Australian Educational Institution, taking English language preparation or studying a Foundation or Diploma courses.Students aiming for an undergraduate (Bachelor Degree) course can opt for the Foundation leading to first year bachelor’s or a diploma leading to 2nd year of bachelor’s studies. These are one-year intensive preparatory courses available in majority of institutions to enable the students to acquire the required skills for getting direct admissions in undergraduate studies.
Are there any support services for international students in Australia?
There are many consumer protection and support services available for international students. These services may be provided directly by institutions or by state, territory and federal government departments.
Can we work while we study in Australia?
Most student visas allow you to work for up to 40 hours every two weeks while your course is in session, and unlimited hours during vacation.
What type of accommodation is available for international students in Australia?
There are on-campus as well as off-campus accommodation facilities available for international students in Australia.
Do international students need a health cover in Australia?
As an international student, you need to have Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) for the entire duration of your study in Australia. Along with OSHC you can also consider purchasing private health insurance for items that your OSHC does not cover.
What are the requirements for a student visa to study in Australia?
The student visa requirements depend on your course of study and certain other significant requirements like an electronic Confirmation of Enrolment (eCoE) certificate, the Genuine Temporary Entrant requirement, sufficient funds, English language proficiency, health and character requirements and Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC).
Is spouse case accepted in Australia?
Spouse case is accepted at post graduate level. Profile of the spouse and main applicant should remain strong and compatible with each other on the grounds of academics, work experience, English scores and financials required.
Is any gap between or after course completion accepted in Australia?
The gap is accepted only if it is justifiable with proper supporting documents.