What are the requirements for admission into Canadian institutions?
Each institution in Canada has its own policy regarding admission requirements for international students. The entry criteria may vary according to the programs as well. The minimum percentage required for Community Colleges are 55% and above in the previous educational qualification and for universities it is 60% and above. Besides, an English Proficiency score is also required. The websites of the institutions may also be checked to get the exact requirements.
Which study fields can we opt for in Canada?
You will get varied options in the technical and professional fields including: business, agriculture and agri-food, health, social services, broadcasting and journalism, hospitality and tourism, design, technology, sciences, information technology, engineering, environment, languages, and arts.
How much does it cost to study in Canada?
Studying in Canada can be relatively cheaper as Canada offers low tuition rates for international students as compared to the U.S., the U.K., and Australia. The average cost of study including tuition and living cost is CAD 25, 000 per year.
What type of accommodation will be available for students in Canada?
You can opt for on-campus housing ranging from shared condominiums to dormitory-style housing or choose to live off-campus.The cost for on-campus housing may or may not include a meal plan and or other utilities such as phone and internet connection.Accommodation prices may be lower off-campus but you will have to bear the extra cost of furnishings, water, electricity and/or other miscellaneous expenses.
How is the climate in Canada?
Canada has four very distinct seasons: Spring (March-May); Summer (June-August); Fall (September-October); and Winter (November-February).While temperatures in the far north climb above 0°C only for a few months of the year, the country’s southern border has warm springs, hot summers and pleasant autumns prevailing for at least seven months before winter sets in.
Are any scholarships offered to international students in Canada?
The eligibility for scholarships for international students aspiring to study in Canada is judged on the basis of outstanding academic grades and exceptional English Proficiency scores. Scholarships are mostly offered by the universities without any particular application based on the eligibility benchmarks but at some institutions the students need to apply for the same.
Can international students work while studying in Canada?
International students can work while studying in Canada if they have a valid study permit and a Social Insurance Number (SIN). The students can work part time for 20 hours a week during term time and 40 hours i.e. full time during vacations. Besides many of the institutions in Canada offer paid internships as part of the course where in the students get the opportunity to work full time in industry relating to their area of study.
Are there any internship opportunities in Canada?
Some programs in Canada do include work experience as part of their curriculum.You may apply for a co-op or intern work permit if You have a valid study permit or
Working is a significant part of your study program in Canada or A letter from your school confirms that all students in your program must complete work placements to get their degree or Your co-op or internship is 50 % or less of the total program of study.
Can students work in Canada after Graduation?
If you graduate from a Designated Learning Institution, then you can gain valuable Canadian work experience under the Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP). Normally a work permit visa is granted for one year on a study of one year. For a study of at least 2 or more years the student can get post study work visa of up to 3 more years.
Can international students apply for permanent residence in Canada?
The permanent resident visa is determined on a point based system. The work experience gained through the PGWPP will help you to garner valuable points to qualify for permanent residency in Canada.
