Hi
hey
hello
hii
Could please help me?
sure I would love to!How can I help you?
Is studying abroad worth it?
Yes my friend!!Studying abroad is a great decision to make and it can change your life completely
How can studying abroad help me?
Well!,in nutshell you get benefits such as Quality education,Better opportunities,International exposure,Overall self development,Opportunities to travel and see the world,Understand Foreign culture and more importantly a life changing experience.
what are the benefits of studying abroad??
Well!,in nutshell you get benefits such as Quality education,Better opportunities,International exposure,Overall self development,Opportunities to travel and see the world,Understand Foreign culture and more importantly a life changing experience.
Thats true! Which are some good countries for studying abroad?
Well each country has its own pros and cons.It depends on your life goals!But in general USA or United states,Canada,UK,Ireland,Germany,Australia,Newzealand are some great countries to study in!!
What factors should one consider while selecting a country?
Well you should consider factors such as Quality of education,Cost of studying,Living Expenses,Visa Policies,Immigration Policies,Employment opportunities,Scope of your profession in that country.
Which countries have scope for Computer Science??
Computer Science is in demand in almost every country specially USA,Ireland and Germany.But USA does hold a slight edge over other countries since its an economic powerhouse and a techhub.
Which country is good for mechanical Engineering?
Germany followed by United States would be a good option for Mechanical Engineering.Germany is well known for Automotives and is the headquarters for many giant companies.
How do I get started?
Once you’ve made up your mind about where you want to study, you should start to think about choosing a program and a university, if you haven’t already.You can research leading universities to discover universities which are best for your subject, and also consult national rankings of universities in your chosen destination.You’ll then want to look closely at the courses offered by the institutions on your short list, as well as researching the local area and lifestyle, admission requirements and costs.
When can I start applying for study abroad programs?
Considering your application as early as possible is the best way to go. After all, the sooner you gain acceptance into a university, the sooner you can arrange your travels.To avoid disappointment, note down all the relevant application deadlines (set out by your chosen university) in HUGE LETTERS on your calendar.Application deadlines will be different depending on the school, but generally speaking, for programs starting in the fall (September/October), applications will be open from early in the year (January/February) until the middle of the year (June/July).
In which country can I earn more??
Well,if earning more money and getting rich post education is your goal,then United States is the country for you!!
Which country has less fees??
Well Germany provides high quality education and doesn't charge any tuition fees.Canada would be the next cheaper destination and may cost you around 20-30 lakhs.
Which country is less expensive??
Well Germany provides high quality education and doesn't charge any tuition fees.Canada would be the next cheaper destination and may cost you around 20-30 lakhs.
Which country is good from immigration perspective?
Canada has the best immigration policies followed by Ireland and Germany.United States is the toughest country from Immigration perspective.
Which country would be easy to settle into?
Canada has the best immigration policies followed by Ireland and Germany.United States is the toughest country from Immigration perspective.
How can I finance my education?
If your family cannot sponsor you,no need to worry.Many banks provide educations loans and the loan amount is easily recoverable in 1/2 years of employment post studying.
Which countries have good work life balance?
Well in general European countries have the best work life balance.Countries such as Germany,Ireland,UK have annual leaves in reange of 25-30 which is the highest you will find throughout the World.
Can one work while studying overseas?
It depends on the length and type of program you will be attending. Your eligibility to work will be shown on the immigration stamp in your passport.
Is it tough to get Visas?
Student visas can be obtained given proper documentation. Most of the applicants who provide a confirmed offer from a University/College abroad and evidence of financial support for tuition fees and living costs are issued visas.
When is the right time for submitting an application to the Universities? 
Every foreign University/College has their intakes during a year. Some have two intakes while others may have three or only one or a rolling intake during the academic year. Majority Institutions in a particular country follow the same intake. Hence, you should initiate steps for admission process at least one year in advance for the respective intake. In some cases, you could begin these steps 3-4 months in advance as well.
 

