Can you provide some information on free education in Germany?
Education at state funded institutions is usually free or highly subsidised with very nominal tuition fees. However, the private institutions do charge tuition fees for bachelor’s and master’s degree programmes in Germany
What is the academic requirement for getting into German Institutions at undergraduate level?
For Technical Education,Academics : 13 years of education i.e. 12th + 1 year of study;Aggregate Marks: 70% and above in 12th grade,IELTS :6.0 with no band less than 5.5,German :For English taught programs knowledge of German language is not compulsory, For German taught programs, German language of B2/C1 level is required
What are the academic requirements for getting into German Institutions at graduate level?
Academics :16 years of education i.e. 12th + 4 year bachelor’s degree (some institutions accept 15 years as well),Aggregate Marks: 75% and above in graduation as admissions are competitive,IELTS :6.5 with no band less than 6.0,GRE :Score greater than 310 as many high ranked institutions require GRE Scores,German :For English taught programs knowledge of German language is not mandatory,For German taught program, German language of B2/C1 level is required
Is it essential to know German to study in Germany?
You need not know German if you intend on enrolling in an international degree programme which would be taught in English. However, it is recommended that you learn German language at the earliest as it will help improve social acceptability and will be an added advantage in getting part time jobs while studying and full time jobs on completing the course.
Can you give some information about the education institutions in Germany?
There are around 400 institutions of higher education in Germany comprising of a combination of state funded and private universities as well as private colleges. One fifth of these are private institutions and many of them offer unique programs which are not taught even at a state-funded university.There are mainly three types of higher education institutions in Germany:1.Technical Universities or Technische Universität - TU.2.Universities of Applied Sciences or Fachhochschule.3.Colleges of Art, Film and Music
Is there any difference between the Technical Universities and the Universities of Applied Sciences?
The Technical Universities (Technische Universität, TU) mainly impart theoretical knowledge. The courses are very academically inclined with varied subject groups. At a university, you can also pursue a doctorate (doctoral degree) which is not possible in a University of Applied Sciences.Universities of Applied Sciences (Fachhochschule) offer practice-oriented academic courses. The focus is more on professional application rather than theory and the training is adapted to the requirements of professional life. As at universities, the first degree is the bachelor's and the second is the master's. The range of subjects comprise fields such as technology, economics, social work or medicine. During the practical phases, which form part of the course and may last for one or more semesters, the focus is on work placements and project phases at companies in Germany and abroad.
What can one learn at the colleges of Art, Film and Music?
At Art, Film and Music Colleges one can study subjects related to arts and fine arts such as music, visual arts, drama, dance and fashion design.
How do I find the best university in my area of study in Germany?
As all German universities offer a very qualitative education, it is hard to rank a university. However, when choosing an institution, you should take several aspects into account like the size of the university, the range of subjects, the location as well as the cost of living in that city.
Where can I find information about internships in Germany?
here are multiple ways to search for internships.Ask your University: There are career offices within the campus which help students get internships. A lot of the research is normally going on at the universities and openings are available and offered through the university to students.Go online: There are numerous websites dedicated to internship listings that can help a student to find an internship easily.Go through an Organization: There are organizations dedicated to facilitate students’ internships in Germany.Network: Professors, other students, family friends, etc., can help you find a good internship.Job Fairs: You can attend job fairs which not only cater to prospective employees but also to prospective interns.
How much money do I need for my living expenses in Germany?
The cost of living in Germany is quite economical as compared to other European countries. Your living expenses will be approximately 853 Euros per month and the largest expense would be towards your monthly rent. You have to open a blocked account and show that you have an equivalent of at least 10,236 Euros at your disposal towards living expenses for one year when applying for a student visa.
Can international students work part time in Germany?
Non-EU/EEA students are able to work in Germany alongside their studies, for 120 full days or 240 half days per year.
Does Germany offer a post study work visa?
On completion of their studies, students from non-EU countries who wish to stay back and take up full time gainful employment may extend their residence permit for up to 18 months to find work relating to their area of study.