What is the cost of living in Ireland?
Living expenses will vary depending upon the location of your institution, the type of accommodation you opt for and your personal expenditure. On an average, the expenses may vary between €7,000 and €11,000 per year.
Can I study part time in Ireland?
No, International Non EU students can’t study part time in Ireland as they have to complete a minimum of 15 hours scheduled contact time per week to be eligible for a visa to study in Ireland.
What will the weather be like in Ireland?
Ireland's climate is mild, moist and changeable with abundant rainfall and the best part is there are no extreme temperatures. You may face extreme winters very rarely when the temperatures drop.
Are there any scholarships for international students in Ireland?
Hundreds of scholarships are available for international students from various sources such as the Government of Ireland, the Irish higher education institutions and other organisations. Scholarships are awarded solely at the discretion of the individual organizations which set down their own criteria for eligibility.
Can I work during or after my studies in Ireland?
Students are allowed to work part-time (up to 20 hours a week) or full-time (up to 40 hours a week) during vacation.
Do I require a Visa to study in Ireland?
All international Non EU students will require a valid student Visa to study in Ireland.
How do I get a study visa for Ireland?
To apply for a student visa for Ireland you need an offer of a recognised programme and a receipt of tuition fees payment letter from a college.
Do I need police clearance to apply for the Visa in Ireland?
Yes, you will be required to get the Police Clearance Certificate from Passport office.
Do I have to pay for medical insurance in Ireland?
Students from non-EU countries, must have a medical insurance in order to be granted a study visa.
How do I open a bank account in Ireland?
You will need two forms of identification to open a bank account as the Irish banks have to establish your identity and verify your address and the same document cannot be used for both the purposes. Apart from this it is at the discretion of the bank to look for further information.
Do international students have a stay back option in Ireland?
Ireland provides 24 months stay back option to international students pursuing master’s program and those pursuing bachelors are entitled to a stay back option of 6 months to one year.
Can I apply for my wife for her dependent Visa with my student Visa in Ireland?
No, spouse can not apply as dependent with the student visa of the main applicant. There is no student dependent visa category available in Ireland.




