Why is New Zealand developing as a study abroad destination?
The New Zealand study abroad experience is one of a kind with perfect programs for students from almost every major. It is based on the prestigious British Education System and all the eight universities of New Zealand are ranked in the top 3% in the world. The support services for international students are amongst one of the best and the country is welcome to immigration. Due to these reasons, New Zealand has developed as an ideal overseas study destination.
What are the popular study fields in New Zealand?
The popular study fields in New Zealand are Business and Management,Information Technology,Engineering and Technology,Construction, Architecture and Built Environment,Health,Operations and Logistics,Hospitality and Tourism
Why Study in New Zealand?
International reputation as a provider of Quality Education ,No Application Fees,Lenient Admission Requirements,Tuition fees may be paid after receiving the Approval in Principle ,There are umpteen Industry Projects for International Students,New Zealand has a strong Research-Intensive Curriculum
How can I choose a University or Institution in New Zealand?
New Zealand has a flexible education system, with a wide range of Institutions to choose from. You can check out your study options, or start exploring the Universities, Institutes of Technology & Polytechnics and Private Institutions.
Which is the best place to study in New Zealand?
You can choose to study in New Zealand anywhere across the country. The eight universities of New Zealand, Institutes of Technology & Polytechnics and Private Training Establishments are spread across the island nation. Nevertheless, Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch are the main popular and happening cities where students usually prefer to study in New Zealand.
Can I do PhD in New Zealand?
New Zealand has a strong Research-Intensive Curriculum and hence is a very good option for PhD. Numerous research opportunities are available at the eight Universities. The additional benefit is that International students pay the same subsidised fees as domestic students and are allowed to work simultaneously during this period as well.
Are New Zealand qualifications valued globally?
New Zealand qualifications are recognised and valued internationally.
How much does it cost to study in New Zealand?
Tuition fees for international students to study in New Zealand depends on the Institution, program, place and duration of study. On an average you would need $17,000- -$35,000 per year based on the Institution and program you choose.
What is the cost of living in New Zealand?
The cost of living also depends on the place you choose to live in, as accommodation and living expenses differ across the country. However, a standard reasonable amount is NZD 15000 per year.
How can I get a scholarship to study in New Zealand?
There are numerous scholarships for international students to study in New Zealand for all the levels of study. The scholarships are offered by the New Zealand Government, Educational Institutions and Philanthropists.
What are the English language requirements to study in New Zealand?
The English language requirements vary based on the institution and the academic level of the course, so you need to check with the institution you want to apply to.
How can I get a visa to study in New Zealand?
You would need a student visa for New Zealand if you want to study for more than three months. The application process will be cheaper, faster and easier if you apply online. The student needs to have a valid unconditional letter of admission from a NZQA accredited Institution and provide supporting of required finances that would be needed towards tuition fees and living & accommodation cost for duration of stay in New Zealand.
Can I work while studying in New Zealand?
If you have a student visa, you may be able to work up to 20 hours a week during term time and full-time i.e. 40 hours a week during scheduled holidays. If you are a Masters by research or PhD student, you may be able to work full-time during term time as well as during scheduled holidays.
Can I work in New Zealand after I complete my studies there?
You can apply for a 12-month Open Post Study Work Visa to locate a job. Once you find a job, you can apply for a further extension of up to two-years. Employer Assisted Post Study Work Visa to gain relevant work experience in your area of study or extend your stay under Essential Skills Work Visa.
Under which condition can I qualify for a New Zealand Resident Visa?
The Permanent Resident visa is determined on a point based system. Any work experience gained after studying in New Zealand will help you to garner valuable points to qualify for Permanent Residency.
