Which areas of education does UK lead in?
UK is the global leader in numerous areas of education like engineering, science, art & design, business & management, law and finance.
What’s special about the UK education system?
The UK education system gives you the liberty to combine courses and subjects from different areas of studies and tailor the degree as per your own needs and interest.
How can we apply for undergraduate or post graduate courses to study in UK?
You can register and apply for an undergraduate course through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
Postgraduate courses in the UK have their own particular entry requirements and application processes, so it is better to check the individual course websites for the relevant instructions
What is UCAS?
UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) is a centralised admissions service for undergraduate admissions. Applicants from UK, EU, and international students aiming to secure a full-time place at universities and colleges across the UK can process their applications through UCAS.
What is UCAS Postgraduate?
Students can search, apply for postgraduate courses, and track the progress of their applications through UCAS Postgraduate which is currently used by selected universities.
What is the academic calendar for universities in the United Kingdom?
The standard academic year starts in September or October and runs until June or July while the Postgraduate courses often run from September to September. There are other courses that are more flexible and offer a variety of start dates.
Do international students get scholarships in UK?
Numerous scholarships, bursaries and grant schemes are on offer for international students and depending on your nationality, you may be eligible for a loan or financial support also from the UK government. Many institutions also offer their own financial assistance.
Can I work in the UK on a study visa?
You can take a part-time job, work placement or internship alongside your studies in UK and the hours and type of work will depend on the type of visa and your sponsoring university or college.
Are Internships available for international students in UK?
Internships may be available as part of your course.
Can we extend our stay in UK post studies?
If you wish to stay in the UK post studies, you may need to apply for a visa extension or for a work visa depending on the type of employment, your duration of stay and your current visa status.
What type of accommodation is available for students in UK?
You can stay in the halls of residence that are on-site or nearby the university or college or rent your own accommodation. You can also opt for a shared living accommodation.
What would be the average annual cost to study in UK?
The average annual costs for international students are approximately £ 20,000 in the UK which are lower than the annual costs borne by international students in the USA as well as Australia.
Do international students need private medical insurance in UK?
International students do not need private medical insurance when studying in the UK. It will cost just £150 per year to gain access to the NHS and this cost has to be paid during your visa application.
What are the standardized test requirements for international students to study in UK?
The standardized test requirements will vary for international students depending on the program. By and large only English Language tests, such as IELTS, TOEFL or PTE are required by most of the Universities. The tests such as GRE, GMAT or SAT are required by very few Universities and for selected courses only.
How is the weather in UK?
Even though UK weather is unpredictable, it is seldom extreme. The average temperature ranges from 9–18 degrees Celsius in summer and 2 and 7 degrees Celsius in winter.But temperatures can reach around 30 degrees Celsius in case of a heatwave and often drop to just below 0 degrees Celsius in winter. Most houses, buildings, trains and buses have good heating systems as such no need to worry.There is little difference between the regions of the UK, but you will experience more snow, rain and wind in northern and mountain areas.  