What’s the difference between a college and a university in USA?
Colleges in U.S. offer only undergraduate degrees whereas universities offer undergraduate as well as graduate degrees, but the terms are often used interchangeably.
What is the academic calendar for universities in the United States?
The academic year for universities in the United States is usually from August to May. Most universities use either the semester system (two terms), the quarter system (students attend three out of four total terms), or the trimester system (three terms).
What is the credit system in U.S. universities?
A credit is a value assigned to each course reflecting the number of hours the class will meet the professor each week.
How can we decide which schools to apply to in U.S.?
It’s essential to explore your options and set your priorities before you decide which schools to apply to in U.S.
As an international student you may work on campus up to 20 hours/week in the first year of study in US and can apply to work off-campus in the subsequent years only with due permission of the International Student Office under CPT or OPT.
How can I find out which universities are rated best for a specific academic major?
The best way is to refer the college and university guides to find which institutions are renowned in different fields of study.
What are the English Language Proficiency requirements for US universities?
U.S. universities require an English language proficiency test before admission and the test requirements vary depending on the course you apply for.The most common tests of English language ability are the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), and the Pearson Test of English (PTE).
Which exams do I need to take inorder to aplly to universities in US?
For Graduate programs,GRE: A standardized test of verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing for graduate-level study.GMAT: A standardized test for MBA applicants and for business programs that measures basic verbal, mathematical, analytical writing and integrated reasoning skills.For Undergraduates,SAT: A standardized test to evaluate the written, verbal and mathematical skills of the applicants.
What is the difference between a F-1 and J-1 visa?
An F-1 visa is a student visa that is needed to study at a college, school or university in the USA. A J-1 visa is for an exchange student for temporary stay in the USA.
What is CPT?
CPT is defined as employment which is an integral part of an established curriculum, including: “alternate work/study, internship, cooperative education in USA, or any other type of required internship or practicum which is offered by sponsoring employers through cooperative agreements with the school.”
What are the popular courses in the USA?
STEM (Sciences, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects are mostly opted by international as well as domestic students in the USA. However, Psychology, Business Administration, Education, Economics and Political Science are certain other popular courses.
Are any scholarships available for international students in USA?
Scholarships and grants are usually awarded to international students in USA on the basis of merit, need or any other exceptional excellence like proficiency in sports, cultural activities or a remarkable contribution in community service. The scholarships are highly competitive.The Standardized Test scores play a vital role in U.S. universities granting scholarships.